hey everyone in this video I will do
token classification by fine-tuning a
bir model and for the model I will
choose these bird base on cast this is
like one of the most most popular model
in the hugging face repository with a 30
with a download last month of 33 million
and then I will apply this finetune
model to predict my tokens uh that is n
tokens that is named entity recognition
tokens on these data set con LL 2003 so
this data set is uh the summary of this
data set is written right here the share
task of con 2003 concerns language
independent named entity recognition we
will concentrate on four types of named
entities person location organizations
and names of miscellaneous entities that
do not belong to the previous three
groups shared task data files contain
four columns separated by single space
each word has been put on a separate
line and there is an empty line after
each sentence so so let's look at the
data set right here so this is a trend
part I have four columns any year post
tags chunk tags and any year tags and
these are the tokens um and then I have
a POS tags that is positional tags then
Chun tags and anyer
tags so what is a token classification
task this generic task encompasses any
problem that can be formulated as
attributing a label to each token in a a
sentence such as named entity
recognition or Neer where we find the
entity such as persons locations or
organization in a sentence this can be
formulated as attributing a label to
each token by having one class par
entity and one class for no entity then
I have POS that is parts of speech
tagging where we Mark each word in a
sentence as corresponding to a
particular parts of speech such as noun
verb adjective Etc and lastly chunking
where we find the tokens that belong to
the same entity this task that is
chunking can be formulated as
attributing one label to any token that
that are at the beginning of a chunk
which are called B uh B Dash that is
beginning of the chunk then attributing
another label to tokens that are inside
a chunk which is attributed as I Dash
and then a third label which is O to
represent tokens that don't belong to
any
chunk and here are the main tokens the
way it is represented o means a word
does not correspond to any entity uh b p
r or i r means word correspond to the
beginning of or is inside a person
entity
b-g or i-org means a word corresponds to
the beginning of or is is inside an
organization entity then I have be
location or I location just similarly
like the previous one and then B
miscellaneous and I miscellaneous means
a word correspond to the beginning or is
inside a miscellaneous
entity all right with that introduction
uh let's start the actual coding for
these fine-tuning task that will be the
subject of this video so initially you
have to install all these libraries pip
install Transformers data sets tokenizer
SE evl and these are just regular
libraries that you have to uh definitely
install for any hugging face related or
Transformer related
project all right and then I need to uh
import all these libraries that is data
set numai then the relevant modules from
Transformers so here I'm importing bird
tokenizer data collator for token
classification and auto model for token
classification and uh the data set we
are using is Con ll2 2003 and that's why
I'm doing data sets. load data set and
then here I'm just printing the data set
and this is hugging phase data set dict
so this is the structure it follows so I
have three segments uh train validation
test and within each segment I have the
features uh which are ID which is a
unique ID and then four feature columns
actually tokens po tags Chun tags any
year
tags and for the number of rows I have
14,42 for train 3251 for validation 3454
for test data set and if I print uh
shape that's how it will be printed that
is you will see the exact shape that it
has all right now I'm going to print an
actual train
Element
2003 I'm taking it from the
train and uh that is uh the actual
element and if you compare it with
actual data set you can see uh it
matches exactly so the ID is zero which
is what you got zero then for the tokens
you reject PA tags chunk tags and tags
and that's exactly what we got so this
actually prints the first row of the
data set okay now what I'm going to do
um uh just print the ner tags so
[Music]
features
any so that's how uh you will get the
feature
names uh you have name as uh and names
as zero B person I person b or
Etc from the data set you can also get
some uh get some metadata uh so you can
do something like this
[Music]
description and that will give you the
entire description that you that we saw
in the hugging Fest um data official
page the share task ofl 2003 concerns
language independent named entity
recognition that's exactly what we saw
in the uh official
page uh yeah so now uh I think that's
enough about the introduction of the
data now let's Define my
tokenizer bir tokenizer fast that's so
do
[Music]
important and now we will apply this
tokenizer to and tokenize an example
input from the data set and see a
particular problem which we need to
solve before proceeding the fine-tuning
model building
so I'm just checking uh the first rows
value from the trend data set and um the
tokenized input will
be tokenizer to that I have to pass
example text
and
tokens to words equal to
true and here again I took the tokens
because that's the column name of our
data set as you can see see right here
this is a con ll2 2003 data set and
token is a column name that I'm
interested
in and the tokens will
be tokenized
input uh actually no tokenizer
do convert IDs to
token tokenized
input input IDs
I also need the word
IDs now let's print the uh length of uh
the example text ner Texs and the
tokenized input input ID so what I mean
is
let's run this cell first okay let's
print this
uh right and
um also I just want to
print the length of the anyer tags in my
example text and the length of the
tokenized input input IDs and you see
the problem here and the problem is that
uh this is called the problem of sub
token so the input IDs returned by the
tokenizer are longer that is 11 length
is 11 versus the labels that our data
set contains and our data set contain
the N year tags of only nine of
them and why it is happening and to
understand that you need to understand
first that the Transformers are often
pre-trained with subword tokenizers
meaning that even if your inputs have
been split into words already each of
those words could be split Again by the
tokenizer this means that we need to do
some processing on our labels because
the input IDs returned by the tokenizer
are longer than the list of labels our
data set
contain and uh this is mainly happening
because first because some special
tokens might be added for example CLS
and separator token and then because of
possible splits of words into multiple
tokens now to align this to uh resolve
this problem we need to uh depend on
these word ID methods and we we can see
the output of this word ID is that it
outputs a whole list and all these
elements that is which are not none that
is the same number of elements as our
processed input IDs but then the special
tokens that is at the beginning probably
it's a CLS token and at the end it's
probably a separated token the special
tokens are mapped to none and based on
this output of word ID methods I am
going to resolve this and in the hugging
phase official documentation also they
propos a similar kind of uh similar kind
of solution to resolve the situation of
special token being added to being
mapped to
none and the strategy for the solution
is like this that here uh we are going
to set the labels of all special tokens
that is which are mapped To None to
minus 100 because the minus 100 is the
index that is ignored by pytor during
training and the labels of all other
tokens we will be mapping to the level
of the word they come from and uh so
that's pretty much the strategy I will
follow in my next
method so this function method name is
tokenize and align labels and this
function mainly will have two jobs that
is set minus 100 as a label for those
special tokens and then number two job
is mask the subord representation after
the first subord and then we align the
labels with the token IDs using the
strategy we just talked about so this
method will take my example which is a
data set and another Boolean
[Music]
argument
tokens again uh I'm choosing tokens here
because that's what our data set has
true and is split TOS true as
well um yeah so that's my tokenized
input okay I just forgot to mention
another thing uh when I was explaining
the uh this problem here that the
problem we are trying to solve here
which is the input IDs returned by the
tokenizer are longer than the list of
levels our data set contains which is
this our list of levels the data set
contains is nine but the input ID is
returned by the tokenized input is 11
and that's a problem we are trying to
solve with this method now be before if
you want to see that why these nine
became 11 how the special tokens got
added which we saw that special tokens
are mapped To None here when we are
printing this word IDs but to see the
actual tokens you need to uh uh see
these output of this tokens variable
because that's why I defined this tokens
variable and you can get the tokens by
applying this method convert IDs to
tokens on the tokenizer and that's what
I did in the tokens variable I'm just
running it here again and printing my
token yeah so that's the reason I got 11
so you see that all these inside they
are number nine 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and
that's a number of anyer tags we have in
this particular data element but two
special token they have been added at
the beginning and at the end the CLS
token for the classifier and separator
token and these tokens are what mapped
to the word or string none which we see
when we print the output of of word IDs
so tokenized input. word IDs will just
print the uh these actual classes of the
tokens and that's a problem that that's
why we got 11 for the length of the
tokenized input input IDs but the
original data set contain only nine and
that's the problem we are trying to
solve here in this method right here
[Music]
um labels will be a new uh just a uh
just a new list that will hold the
labels
later and now I start the looping
[Music]
anyer T because that's the column name
that the original data set has and
that's what I am looping
over so here word IDs comes to uh
rescue the word ID word IDs method in
tokenized inputs so my word IDs will be
equal to
match index equal to
I so what this is doing is that word
ideas will return a list of mapping the
tokens and um list of mapping uh the
tokens to the actual word in the initial
sentence and it returns a list
indicating the word corresponding to
each
token and now I start my second
Loop X
uh over word
IDs so we have already seen the word IDs
output will be something like this uh
none 01 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 so uh this word
IDs is just a list mapping the tokens to
their actual word in the initial
sentence and that's what I'm looping
over and if word
idx is
none then set minus 100 as as a label
for the special
tokens sorry one
second and why minus 100 that's because
again uh this will be ignored by pyge
during the
training label I s do Happ okay and now
if that is not the case L
If X is not equal
to previous word
index that is if the current word index
is not equal to the previous word then
it's a most regular case that is and in
that case I'm just going to add the
corresponding token of the word as it
is label
IDs do
happen label
and word I
DX uh why I'm getting um label IDs is
not defined but oh yeah so
yeah okay and so two conditions are
taken care of I just must have a last
condition that is to take care of so uh
the last condition is for the subwords
yes so we will see what it
does so this is to take care of the
subwords which have the same word index
in that case set it to minus 100 as well
for them but only if label all tokens uh
this argument is false other wise uh set
it as it is so in this
case lbel
[Music]
IDs
x lse minus
100 cool and uh after these Loops um
I have to update my previous word index
to make it equal
to word in
idx okay come out of the loop labels.
happened
uh
tokenized so I'm just for the tokenized
input I'm creating a new
uh key now which is
[Music]
labels and now I'm going to invoke this
method why this Extra
Spaces yeah
to
[Music]
to train I'm just
taking uh from 4 to
[Music]
5 point
okay let's run from
here cool so this is output uh from the
tokenized and align levels so now uh
just note one thing here that um if I
printed the tokenized input variable
before
applying uh before applying the uh the
this method then uh this uh dictionary
will have only three keys that is input
IDs then I will have token type IDs and
then attention mask but after this uh
method a new new key has been added in
this line here which is
labels and there's a new key that has
been added uh to the tokenized input
variable after the method and that's the
that's a key whose values are properly
aligned all right because we can see
this 100 minus 100 has been added here
for all the special
tokens now let's print some of the
tokens and labels
to uh see them side by
side so I'm going to Loop over
[Music]
tokenizer
q and
[Music]
zero labels
zero toen
and also the
[Music]
label
L uh what happened uh let me
[Music]
fix yeah so here we can see the uh the
actual tokens and their corresponding uh
corresponding labels so CLS has- 100
separator has- 100 that's exactly what I
wanted uh all
right tokenized data set now will
be
so let's apply that method across the
con 2003 with the map function it's a
pretty powerful and pretty useful
function from hugging face I can apply a
particular method across all the input
all the elements all the individual rows
in a single
line to
okay
and line
labels cool now let's define my model
Auto model for token
classification I'm
pretrained bird
B
[Music]
okay because we have nine classes so
number labels equal to
9 let it run it may take a minute or so
yeah
cool okay now I need to Define uh the
training argument
parameters Transformers
import training
arguments finding your Lans
and they are my trading
arguments let's run this
cell okay I also need to define the data
collator for token classification and
pass
[Music]
tokenizer so these data collators are
objects that will form a batch by using
a list of data set elements as input
these elements are of the same type as
the elements of train data set and eval
data set and to be able to build batches
data collector May apply some processing
like padding some of them like uh some
of the data collators like data cator
for language modeling also apply some
random data augmentation on the formed
batch so data collator actually
automatically pads a model inputs in a
batch to the length of the longest
example these bypass that need to set a
global maximum sequence length and in
practice leads to faster training since
we perform fewer redundant computations
on the padded tokens and attention
mask my metric is SE
SQ
[Music]
M features and take the iner TS
let's run
[Music]
it feature names uh that would be yeah
that's just feature. names I think yeah
these are my feature names okay
and now calculate this metric on a
single example and that example will be
just this one that is the very first
element from the data
set and for that what I need to do I
need to get the labels from that
example that is label means the ner
tags as a
list label
list on
example in your
TXS uh yeah so in the first example I
have these uh named entity recognition
tags that is B organization o b
miscellaneous Etc now let's calculate
the
metric metric. compute
I'm passing the same labels to
predictions and
reference and that's how you will get
your result of the metric and here I got
the Precision One recall one all these
the very very ideal score is because I
passed the same list to both my
prediction and reference but anyway this
was just for checking that metric.
compute is working and now I am going to
uh going to define the actual compute
metric uh method which will be passed to
my training configuration
[Music]
oh uh the the prediction logits will
just be obtained by applying num. argmax
because the logits and the probabilities
both are in the same order so we do not
need to apply soft Max
here just the AR
Max right La it across the exis of
two and now I need to remove all values
where the label is-
100 predictions uh so before passing to
the metric. compute just as we saw uh
here I need to pass a list to both the
predictions and the reference to both
this argument I need to pass a list and
that's why here right now I'm going to
do is create my pred itions list and
also the true labels list to be passed
uh to the
reference okay now that will be
prediction label
L
and
or zipping off my
prediction
playable if L is not equal
to minus 100 right
okay
prediction lbel in
zip that would be between
Red
[Music]
Blocks and
similarly true
[Music]
levels um yeah uh so this will be I have
to get my list
element uh
from uh the true labels that
means label list
here instead of
evales this
L
for PR
L and zipping
off
prediction and labels so this label
label is my true
label so uh it's coming this this label
is coming from these labels variables
actually what we defined here and we
will see that in a second for the next
zip if
[Music]
L
right
prediction zip
[Music]
let's name it predictions
reference
is and from this I'm just going to
return a dict taking the various key
values from my result and that will be
just
this cool that should work and now uh I
need to Define my training
configurations again in the next
cells so trainer equal to model ARS
training data set is tokenized data set
train tokenize data set
validation so everything is defined I
can actually train my model right now
that is going to take quite a bit of
time I mean if you are running in collab
with GPU it should not take more than
maybe 6 7
minutes I also need to write the code
for saving the model save R
Trend
cizer
okay and also need to uh Define two
variables uh here for uh converting my
ID to label and label to
ID SD
I that's my key here and
label label list similarly for Label 2
ID
or um for I label
in EN numid
label
list cool and
config sorry
Import in your model because that's my
model name just loading the config after
the
training remember this any anyer model
here by this by this line it's
completely pre-trained completely
completely sorry this anyer model here
is completely fine-tuned because we
started with the pre-train model from
hugging Fest and then we trained it
right here with this line and after
defining all the training configuration
so at this model uh this this anyer
model is coming from uh this model. safe
pre-rain this line so at this point this
is a completely fine tune model and why
I'm doing this because I'm going to test
my fine tune model on a evaluation text
that whether that creates a proper kind
of any
tags okay and uh
here
config ID
to that will be my ID to
level
similarly
config level to ID
these are all standards code if you
follow hugging F tutorial and their
documentation these
are uh very much well written over
there config
[Music]
Json
W now load my pretrain sorry fine-tuned
model so
let's name it
[Music]
model photo model for token
classification
model
okay and
uh so this is the output that you get
for your uh this model fine
tuned Okay so model config bird config
name of name or path any model
architecture bird for token
classification attention prop Dropout
prop all these id2 labels uh are given
here properly okay so that's our uh fine
tune model and now I'm going to test
this model on a on a example
text and there I have first I just
imported pipeline so that I can use this
uh pipeline method for getting the
inference from my model
and then I'm just defining pipeline
passing ner for telling the pipeline
that I'm trying to do named entity
recognition and for the model argument I
pass my model fine tune which is my fine
tune model tokenizer remains tokenizer
and for this is example text Bill Gates
is a founder of Microsoft and all I do
is any result equal to NLP and within
that I pass the example text and this is
my anyer result that is INF for ining
from my fine tune model and look at that
uh this first Bill Gates it's obviously
B person it model has correctly
predicted score with a score of 0.99
that is with a very very high
probability then word
Bill uh entity I person okay so the the
first one was Bill and that's this one
and the second one was this and that's
the word gets and and that's also I
person the next one word is Microsoft
and that also it has correctly uh
correctly identified as beginning of
organization with a very high
score so it looks like this inferencing
this was a very bestas line inferencing
I just uh ran the training for four
epochs and It produced a very good
result
indeed all right that pretty much wraps
up this video if you have liked this one
smash the like button and also do
subscribe because I'm going to do many
interesting NLP projects over the coming
days and weeks so see you in the next
one thank you very much for watching